git changelog
=============

`git changelog` is a command for managing a changelog in Markdown format for a git project.

It looks for merge commits within the repository to generate changelog entries.

Message Generators
------------------

Changelog entries are generated from metadata associated with a merge commit. Entries are given the following:

-	Number (such as an issue or pull request number)
-	Message
-	URL
-	Feature request or bugfix
-	Version

At the moment, the only implemented generator is a GitHub generator.

### GitHub Generator

The GitHub generator scans the merge commits for ones that look like they were generated by merging a pull request. It looks at the pull request to see if it has the label `kind/bug` or `kind/feature request`. If the pull request has one of those, it marks the entry as being a feature request or a bugfix. The message is read from the body of the merge commit which corresponds to the title of the pull request. The version is determined by looking at the last known tag using `git describe`. If the last tag is a specific release, it bumps the minor version and inserts it into that section. If the last tag is a tag indicating a release candidate, it places the entry into that version.

Formatting
----------

The markdown is formatted by [markdownfmt](https://github.com/jsternberg/markdownfmt).

Additive Changelog Modification
-------------------------------

`git changelog` will not modify the changelog in a way that destroys information. It parses the Markdown, adds the changelog entries to the appropriate section, and then rewrites the changelog. If it finds a changelog entry that has already been added to the version, it will not add it again. This makes it possible to run `git changelog` on all of the commits for a release to ensure the changelog is correct before release.

The additive behavior makes it so that a human can manually change the changelog and that information will not be deleted when the changelog generator is run next. So if you want to add another section to the changelog like `Breaking changes` at the top, you can do that. It is suggested to run any manual changes through `markdownfmt` so that an extra commit isn't created for formatting the changelog.
